>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
let's shift our attention,
we're still talking about functions but,
let's shift our attention specifically
to the arguments,
the parameters that functions receive.
And by the way just clear
up some terminology.
Parameter and
argument are often used interchangeably.
They are technically different.
The generally accepted definition here
is that a parameter is the thing
in the function definition.
Like if I say function, add number,
and then I have x and y, the x and
the y are parameters.
What is an argument then?
That's the value that gets passed
in when you call the function.
So if I later say add number 3,
4, the 3 and
the 4 are the arguments that get assigned
to the parameters x and y, respectively.
Arguments get assigned to parameters.
So when I use arguments here,
I'm referring to the things
that are being passed in.
But we also are encompassing in that
umbrella the parameters that they get
assigned to, we're talking about
the inputs to the function.
We wanna look at the nature of
the inputs of those functions.
All right, so
if I have a function called increment,
that takes a single input value,
in this case x, and
it returns a value back, and
in this case it's the sum of x and y.
There's a special term to
describe that shape of function.
And I'm gonna use this idea of shape
throughout the rest of this course, okay?
And I want you to understand I could be
talking about things that are much more
formal like type definitions, but
I don't think that's useful for us.
So I'm gonna use more informal language
here to describe the shape of a function.
Okay, and
here's what the shape of a function is.
The number and the kinds of things you
pass into it, as well as the number and
the kinds of things that come out of it,
that's the shape of a function.
We're being less formal than
restricting ourselves to
particular type language, okay.
We'll talk about type signatures.
So the shape of a function that takes
a single value in and gives us a single
value out, that shape has a special
kind of name we call a unary function.
And if we look on line seven
at a function called sum,
that takes an x and a y,
as x and y formal parameters.
That takes two inputs, so the shape of
that function is a little different.
It takes two inputs, still returns one
output, we call that a binary function.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
we have terms unary and binary.
They could sound scary, but
they're actually pretty straightforward.
They're just describing the shape of
the input signature, if you will.
What do we expect to be able to pass in,
and importantly,
what do we expect to be able to get out?
>> Kyle Simpson: And it turns out that
the shape of functions is super critical.
The functional programmer is almost
obsessed with the shape of functions.
Very similar to if you were playing with a
set of Legos, and you were trying to build
up a model, it would matter if this piece
fit on top of this piece, wouldn't it?
If they didn't fit,
you couldn't use them together.
So if I have a bunch of
functions in my application.
And their shapes are not compatible,
they don't fit like Lego pieces don't fit,
then they're not gonna work together,
are they?
The shapes of our functions matter,
and it matters so
much that in the authoring of our
functions, we're constantly thinking,
what is this shape going to
imply to my future usage of it?
Am I gonna restrict myself to
only using it in certain cases,
if it looks like this?
For functions that we are in control of,
we want to care about the shape.
When I say in control, I mean, we get to
decide the design of the function like
what it's called and
what it takes and what it returns.
For functions that we decide we want
to be very cognizant of that chain and
what it will imply, what it will create
as an effect when it's being used.
For reasons that you won't
fully understand now but
you will begin to get
as we go further along,
functional programmers tend
to prefer unary functions.
Single input, single output.
And their next favorite kind of
function is a binary function,
two inputs single output.
And I'd say probably 95,
98% of all functions you'll ever
see in a good functional program
will be of one of those two sorts.
It's probably like 70,
30 unary versus binary.
There is a term to describe
all of the other functions,
those miscellaneous ones that take 3,
4, 10, 20, whatever.
We call those enary functions.
They're vastly less common because the
more inputs a function has, the harder it
is to make it work with other functions,
harder is to get the shapes to fit.